Create ui-c8y-1023-4-0-adding-a-new-ai-chat-component-9795-graft-release-cd-10374.md (#3945)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/application-enablement/ui-c8y-1023-4-0-adding-a-new-ai-chat-component-9795-graft-release-cd-10374.md

---
date: ""

> title: New ai-chat component  and AI HTML code assistant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: New ai-chat component and AI chat assistant for HTML Widgets
```

Reviewer 2: @rahulc8y  We use sentence capitalization (only capitalize the first word in a title) so lower letters is actually correct here. Is the term "AI Chat Assistant" a proper noun that must be spelled like this?

Reviewer: updated

> title: New AI HTML Code assistant and ai-chat component added

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: New ai-chat component  and AI HTML code assistant
```

> title: New ai-chat component and AI chat assistant for HTML Widgets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: New ai-chat component and AI chat assistant for HTML widgets
```

product_area: Application enablement & solutions
change_type:
  - value: change-QHu1GdukP
    label: Feature
component:
  - value: component-YbYJ3gLU_
    label: Web SDK
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-pjJiURv9Y
    label: ui-c8y
ticket: MTM-64236
version: 1023.4.0
---

> A new ai-chat component has been added to the Web SDK, which allows you to simply generate chat conversations with the Web SDK. Based on that we directly integrated a new AI Chat Assistant, that supports you with creating HTML based widgets. The assistant is only shown in the HTML widget config section, if the AI Agent Manger microservice is used and a provider API key is configured. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A new ai-chat component has been added to the Web SDK, which allows you to simply generate chat conversations with the Web SDK. Based on this, a new AI chat assistant has been integrated, which supports you with creating HTML-based widgets. The assistant is only shown in the HTML widget configuration section, if the AI Agent Manager microservice is used and a provider API key is configured. 
```

> A new ai-chat component has been added to the Web SDK, which allows you to simply generate chat conversations with the Web SDK. Based on this, a new AI chat assistant has been integrated, which supports you with creating HTML-based widgets. The assistant is only shown in the HTML widget configuration section, if the AI Agent Manager microservice is used and a provider API key is configured. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Web SDK now includes a new ai-chat component, providing a simple and consistent way to integrate chat-driven experiences into your application.

Building on this component, we have added an AI chat assistant to the HTML widget configuration section, which supports users in generating and refining HTML-based widgets.

Note that the assistant depends on the AI Agent Manager, which is currently in preview. It is available in the HTML widget only when the microservice is enabled, and a valid provider API key is configured. Users with the Tenant Manager role can enable the feature via the Manage preview features option in the Administration application and then add the required API key in the AI Agent Manager.
```
